feat(python): Update docs for SDK 2.0 (#9182)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/platforms/python/enriching-events/scopes/index.mdx

---
title: Scopes
description: "SDKs will typically automatically manage the scopes for you in the framework integrations. Learn what a scope is and how you can use it to your advantage."
---

When an event is captured and sent to Sentry, SDKs will merge that event data with extra
information from the current scope. SDKs will typically automatically manage the scopes
for you in the framework integrations and you don't need to think about them. However,

> you should know what a scope is and how you can use it to your advantage.

Author: I think it's good to have an intro here before jumping to specifics -- it helps folks decide whether this is something that's actually relevant for them and whether they should keep reading.

> you should know what a scope is and how you can use it to your advantage.

Reviewer: Okay, in that case, maybe we can shorten and clarify the introduction a bit? Perhaps something like the following?

> Scopes store extra data that the SDK adds to your event when sending the event to Sentry. While the SDKs typically manage the scope automatically, understanding how scopes work and how you can manage them manually can be helpful.

At the end of the pipeline, the final data applied to the event is the result of merging the global scope and the isolation and current scopes together, applying data from each in turn.

## Changing the Scope

In most cases, it should be enough to use the top-level API (like <PlatformIdentifier name="capture-event" /> or <PlatformIdentifier name="set-tag" />) and let the SDK handle the scopes for you in the background.

If you do need to interact with scopes directly, you can use the <PlatformIdentifier name="new-scope" /> context manager. It can be used to fork the current scope, apply modifications to the new scope as long as the context manager is active, and then return to the original scope afterwards. This is useful if you only want to send data for one specific event, for instance for doing things like [modifying the context](../context/). It's roughly equivalent to the <PlatformIdentifier name="push-scope" /> context manager in earlier (1.x) versions of the SDK.

<Note>

> Make sure you're not mixing the use of <PlatformIdentifier name="new-scope" /> and top-level APIs -- this won't work well because the top-level API might interact with a different scope in the background. As long as you're in the <PlatformIdentifier name="new-scope" /> context manager, you should be calling methods directly on the scope you just created.

Reviewer: This comment is somewhat vague. I tried to make it more specific and clearer, but I am unsure whether what I wrote is factually correct. If it is, let's apply this suggestion, otherwise please let me know what I misunderstood and we can come up with a better comment.

```suggestion
Avoid calling top-level APIs inside the  <PlatformIdentifier name="new-scope" /> context manager. The top-level API might interact with a different scope from what <PlatformIdentifier name="new-scope" /> yields, causing unintended results. While within the <PlatformIdentifier name="new-scope" /> context manager, please call methods directly on the scope that <PlatformIdentifier name="new-scope" /> yields!
```
